# AARD-Intern-Research
Deep learning model to design dielectric metasurfaces for surface-enhanced biosensing 
Authors: Julia Hui, Kevin Qi, Michael Dubrovsky, Sensong An, Tingying Helen Zeng, Mikhail Y. Shalaginov  
Nanophotonic resonators can strongly confine electromagnetic fields and thus enhance light interaction with biomolecules. The molecular absorption signal increases when a nano-antenna resonance profile matches spectral features of studied biomolecules. Position and shape of the nano-antenna resonance is defined by the antenna geometrical parameters and its material dielectric permittivity. To find the suitable geometrical parameters one typically runs costly electromagnetic simulations over a vast range of parameters, analyzes data and finally retrieves suitable geometries. By leveraging deep neural nets, we provide an efficient inverse-design solution to the nano-resonator design problem by feeding in biomolecular spectra and outputting the nano-antenna parameters. Our deep learning model represents a cascade of two neural nets. The first net inputs a transmittance spectrum and generates a set of nano-antenna parameters (permittivity, gap width, height, radius for the design of cylindrical pillars). The second part (predictive net) inversely predicts the spectral response of the nano-antenna with the parameters specified by the first network. The predictive net has been pre-trained on the data generated from numerical full-wave electromagnetic simulations. Our model can provide on-demand design parameters to match spectral molecular responses, e.g., urea, lactate, albumin. this approach can potentially be applied for compact in-situ biosensors. The demonstrated technique enables much faster route for designing compact optical biosensors.
